# Title: I Can't Believe It's Not Optimal: Challenges in Decoupled Multi-Agent Scheduling

## Keywords
decoupled scheduling, multi-agent systems, joint optimization, localized congestion, failure modes

## TL;DR
Why don't individually optimal task allocations and path plans always deliver expected global throughput in the real world? Dive deep into the congestion pitfalls of decoupled scheduling and explore joint optimization.

## Abstract
The goal of this paper is to challenge the strictly decoupled scheduling pipeline in Robotic Mobile Fulfillment Systems (RMFS) and build a framework to discuss surprising suboptimal results, thereby encouraging a culture of holistic evaluation and joint optimization. In recent years, we have witnessed a remarkable rise of multi-agent systems, whose impressive performance on isolated benchmark tasks has led to increasing ambitions to deploy decoupled task allocation and multi-agent path finding (MAPF) in real-world warehouse applications across all scales. However, despite its potential, this decoupled scheduling approach still faces many challenges during deployment in dynamic, real-world conditions, thus exposing practical limitations that are often overlooked in controlled, stage-specific benchmarks. Therefore, in this paper, we aim to explore the challenges, unexpected outcomes, and common principles underlying similar issues and failure modes encountered when deploying decoupled scheduling models in real-world RMFS scenarios. We will introduce a joint optimization framework and discussions covering diverse interdependent components including, but not limited to, task assignment matching utility, spatial robot density, temporal routing conflicts, and global makespan. The failure modes may include suboptimal global performance, concerns with the efficiency and reliability of applying individually optimal stage-wise solutions where robots crowd identical zones simultaneously, as well as severe localized route congestion and cascading deadlocks. More importantly, we aim to discuss common reasons or patterns in these challenges and failure modes across both the task allocation and path planning layers. By creating a synergistic framework for these interdependent stages to interact and share congestion-aware insights, we hope to accelerate research by translating conflict findings from the routing phase back to the allocation phase, and also deepen robotics researchers’ understanding of the universal fundamental issues that should be addressed within the current theoretical and empirical scheduling paradigms. Embracing the inherent coupling of these problems as valuable optimization opportunities will, therefore, help the community learn from past decoupled mistakes, and drive the development of more robust, reliable, and globally optimal multi-agent systems.